You’d looked me in my eyes and told me
Bones_Bard 

---

How can you look me in the eyes and tell me you have not come far?

She sat in her bed, thinking over how she got here, her husband, a man, and occasionally women, she loved, who also made her want to slap him, he hadn’t known who she was, she thought back to something she once told her father, well, the Doctor not knowing who she was had killed her. She took a book from her bedside table, she was surrounded by them these day, she whispered to herself. “It’s a bit boring with those trips, isn’t it.” She didn’t expect anyone to agree, and nobody did.

Fall in love with who you'll one day be, but please, don't fall so hard

She heard something, a teleport, she raced out, even after a few years, she was just as fast as she used to be. When she got into the garden she stood, shocked, a man wearing a ridiculous bow tie, with an even more ridiculous hat. She laughed and smiled. She wished it could have been him after he knew who she was, because what he was mostly talking about was 1969, she wanted to know how her parents were in New York, she wanted the more mature version of him, but she lent against him, sitting in the garden, gently pulling him up to show him the three children she had been left with, it wasn’t night yet and they were playing together. She loved his smile, the look in his eyes as he looked at her, but she wanted her version of him, she forced smiled as he left, waving instead of kissing him.

That you start to resent every second stuck in the present

River hadn’t gotten lots of sleep since he visited. She wished he’d come back. Her life wasn’t as high energy as it used to be, so she had taken to running laps around the house until she couldn’t run anymore, her legs hurt, they never used to, she didn’t know if she was happy with the afterlife she got, being left on the shelf, she wondered when he’d visit again, she wanted him back. It had been an hour or two later, she was reading through her diary. She wished he’d let her data-ghost go, this felt the same as her life, except she couldn’t adventure on her own, she relied on him for a sense of adventure, she looked down at the diary, she needed a distraction, and as always in the library, as she wanted it happened, one of the three children pushed the door open and River smiled a bit, holding them in her arms, whispering stories of adventures.

Absent and restless, unhappy and reckless

He hadn’t come and she was getting restless, unhappy with him, why hadn’t he come back, well it wasn’t a question, he didn’t like endings. She ran faster, she felt her legs hurt again, and like when she was younger she ignored it. Eventually she stopped, leaning on the wall. River sat down, just how many years had she spent here, waiting. She leaned her head back, her breath was coming in quick pants, and she realised how much she had wasted. She didn’t have to wait for him, she’d be overjoyed if he arrived, but she didn’t want to only think about him, she’d realised how reckless she had been when waiting for him, how the others had called her absent, she smiled as she walked back inside, then she heard her crew-mates voices and the children’s too, as she walked in, she’d look for the Doctor another day, but she’d never forget him, or just how much she loved him.