I Want You Safe
Beegabbagabba 

---

 "I want you safe. My Doctor."

Even as the regeneration energy continues to build, the ethereal golden gleam that swirled along the flow of his veins- a feeling so familiar and yet never welcome, never without pain- But Rose Tyler, her voice, her words continue to run through his mind.

"My Doctor."

He'd begged her, pleaded with Rose to just give up the power of the vortex, and when she'd dismissed him, when she'd told him she'd done it for him, because she wanted him safe...

The Doctor shook his head. No matter.

It didn't matter how long he'd wanted to kiss her. It didn't matter that kissing her meant certain death in one form or another- it didn't matter if he wasn't sure that absorbing the vortex from her wouldn't kill him past the point of regeneration.

The only thing, as it had been for some time now- was Rose Tyler.

Her safety was paramount. He'd let this universe and any other burn and whither and die if he could save this one brilliant, beautiful, fantastic human girl.

Of course he loved her.- but the Doctor hadn't ever- couldn't dare to tell her.

Two hearts beat in near panic, two hearts sting with the energy building for his body to burn, two hearts that would beat for Rose Tyler- no matter what came for him.

He watches the swirl of pure energy as it creeps across his skin, like the fog clinging to the grass of a cool autumn morning- then he hears her stir.

"Rose Tyler." Rassilon, how he loved to say her name. "I was going to take you to so many places. Barcelona. Not the city Barcelona, the planet Barcelona. You'd love it. Fantastic place! They've got dogs with no noses! Imagine how many times a day you end up tellin' that joke and it's still funny!"

Rose blinked back at him, confused. He was laughing, but something wasn't right and Rose could feel it.

"So... Why can't you take me?" Her voice sounds so broken, like when they'd fought as they faced the Reapers so long ago, now. Afraid she'd messed up again.

"Maybe you will, and maybe I will. But not like this."

Rose furrowed her brow and took a small step forward.

"Doctor... Doctor please. You're not makin' any sense." She pleaded.

This time he knew he was rambling, and when she stepped forward again, her trembling hand reaching to comfort him- he yelled and it scared her so much she jumped.

"Stay back!" He demanded- or warned- Rose couldn't tell.

"Please?" She begged, tears rolling down her cheeks. "Please- tell me what's wrong?"

"I absorbed all the energy of the time vortex, and no one's meant to do that!" He laughed, a bitter and empty sound, before he gave a sharp wince in pain. "Every cell in my body is dyin'."

"Can't I help somehow?" She insisted, still trying to inch closer to him. He smiled at her- His Rose, always compassionate. Always wanting to help anyone she sees in pain. The one being in all of time and space that could've taught a Dalek to feel- and she stood before him, begging to help. "Can't you do somethin'? Maybe the TARDIS could-"

"Yeah- I'm doin' it now! Time Lords have this little trick, see. It's sort of a way of cheatin' death. Except... it means I'm gonna change. An' I'm not goin' to see you again. Not like this. Not with this daft old face. But before I go-"

The tears started to fall faster, fat and hot as they rolled down her splotchy, red cheeks.

"Don' say that!" She sobbed.

"Rose- I just wanted t' tell you... You were fantastic. Absolutely fantastic..."

At once the golden light he'd thought he'd pulled from her body flicked back into her honey-brown eyes. It wasn't consuming her with blinding light and unspeakable power- though all of that was still there, too, just under the surface. She'd mastered her power somehow, and it seemed was no longer interested in talking.

"Enough." Rose commanded firmly, her voice layered with many others in many languages. "You think you can tame a wolf with a single kiss? I saw everything, Doctor. An' it is you I want safe. My Doctor."

The Doctor was too in awe of her- much more controlled now- as she cleared the distance between them.

Slowly, the Bad Wolf held Rose's hand out, and the Doctor took it. She stepped to him, inches apart.

"We will make you a deal. The TARDIS, the Vortex, and I." Rose said, the echoes much more muted now. She still held his hand in her own, but she laid her free hand on his chest, between his hearts. "We will split the energy with you. It is infinite, like the bond we now share- but the radiation you pulled from Rose is not. Neither of you can withstand it all, but together... Together the Doctor and the Wolf can withstand anything."

"How d' you expect t-"

His question was cut off when Rose- the Bad Wolf- stood on her tip-toes and kissed him. The hand she'd laid on his chest slid up and around his shoulder. He let her hand go and cradled her face in his hands, kissing her back. There was the most electric, euphoric feeling as her soft lips slid over his. He felt not just the vortex leaving his body, but the regeneration energy as well.

Then it returned, only to leave again, then cycle back.

It was then the Doctor understood- the small part of his brain not occupied with kissing Rose calculated what the Bad Wolf had already known. The vortex energy was bonding with the regenerative energy, and dividing both between the two of them.

After another moment Rose slowly slid back down onto her flat feet, and the light that had flowed from her retreated once more. She swayed slightly on her feet, and the Doctor gently steadied her in his arms.

She looked up at him, and he was rendered nearly breathless at the pure adoration he saw where the vortex glow had just been. He took careful calculations of the both of them, then. He could no longer feel the burn of his cells as they prepared for their death. There was no regeneration glow that was to herald the coming change. He felt tired- bone tired- but nothing more.

"Hey." She said softly, exhaustion apparent in the one simple syllable.

"Hey." He replied just as gently, and he gave her a smile, then cradled her face in one hand. She nuzzled deeper into his touch. "You- You want to tell me what you just did, Rose?"

"C'n you help me sit down first?" She sighed, giving a longing look to the jump seat. "Please, Doctor."

He didn't hesitate an instant, but stooped slightly and scooped her into his arms, earning a small squeak of surprise from Rose. He sat her gently down on the seat, then knelt himself beside her.

"Rose." He called firmly, taking both her hands in his. "Tell me what you did."

"You were gonna change." She explained. "I saw it- The timeline where I let you regenerate."

The Doctor did his best not to react, but he knew he'd not used that word around her, so it had to have been something she'd learned about while she had all of time and space running through her at speeds humanity was thousands of years away from having words to describe.

"Why-" He tried not to be offended. Time Lords regenerate, it was a core part of their species- and his Rose wasn't one to shy away from differences or fear change. "Why would you want to stop that?"

"You're my Doctor." She replied honestly. "All of you. I saw you. Every face. Every lifetime. But you-"

She gently slid her small hand from his and laid her palm along his jaw.

"I wanted you safe. The others- the next one who would've come- He lost me. Left me." She closed her eyes for a few seconds and a stray tear rolled away. "The only timeline where we don't lose each other is the one where you don' leave me. Not this face. Not ever. I-We- The Wolf and I- fixed it. You will live long, heal easily, an' run far. There will be no need to fully regenerate, because we've made you more. More efficient. Tougher. You'll have a full Time Lord's lifeline, I promise. An'... If you still want, an' heaven knows I really hope you do- I'll be there, too."

The Doctor balked back at her for a long moment, unsure what to say.

He took a moment and closed his eyes, the sharp pain of the regeneration he had been facing had faded, so he was able to think clearly, and he watched as their timelines, their lives, twisted together into one long, beautiful path of gold and blue. He gasped slightly as he opened his eyes to face the woman who was willing to give so much to him- even after seeing all the horrid things he had done.

"It was too much power, I know..." Rose spoke, hoping to break up the oppressive silence. "But I love you so much an' I-"

"I love you, Rose Tyler." The Doctor interrupted. "So, so much."

"Yeah?" She let out a shaky breath of relief, before giving a huff of laughter and a grin.

"Of course I do." He assured her.

"So you're not mad I- We- did this?"

She bit her lower lip, eyes pleading with him to understand.

"Oh, Rose." He looked her face over, hoping she could see how much wonder and amazement he felt in that moment. "I'm not mad."

Her face lit up at the comment, and she grinned.

"But it sounds t' me like you've not just changed me. An' I have to worry you understand what that means you've lost." He'd known loss so often he was surprised he'd not grown calloused to it, but Rose, ever compassionate and loving- he knew she had centuries of mourning ahead of her, something that he'd not learned to cope with himself.

Rose nodded, only the briefest flicker of sadness passing through her and she quickly blinked it away.

"I saw everything, Doctor. An' I made m' choice a long time ago. I want you. Forever. I know you're worried 'bout when I lose m' mum an' everything, but I've told you already. I understand it. I would've lost her eventually anyway, even without you. But t' be with you- it's all worth it. Better with two."

The Doctor had her lips captured with his own again before he even had time himself to know what he was going to do in response to that comment. When he let her go, he laid his forehead against hers and sighed.

"Better with two." He agreed.

There would be time later for him to ask how she'd held on to the Bad Wolf when he pulled the vortex from her head. There would be time for them to learn to exist together for the long, long life they would now get to enjoy. There would be time to explain what she'd done to Jack, and time to help him settle into his changes, too. There would be time to decide how to break the news of her near-immortality and their shifted relationship to her mother- but for now; all that mattered was the moment they were in. Holding each other, comforting each other after the longest and most difficult day they'd ever faced.

Together.

Safe.

Better with two.