Even If the Language of Flowers is Dead, Roses Always Mean Love
aubreyplvr

---

 Then

 

 

She had a smile that lit up his life. Every single time that he saw it, it was like both of his hearts exploded with joy. Her smile, the way her teeth showed, how her tongue poked out, it was perfect. Everything about her was absolutely perfect. 

 

The Doctor had no clue how he could live life again without Rose. He genuinely believed that he, that this body, was made for her. The way her hand fit into his when he held hers before running, it was absolutely perfect. 

 

Rose brought a new joy into The Doctor’s life that he never thought he would feel again. After the Time War, the Doctor felt torn apart inside. He didn’t know how to live anymore. Then he met Rose, her presence made life worth living again. She showed him that he could still feel joy. The Doctor didn’t know what he would do if he lost her. 

 

 

—

 

 

Now

 

 

After she was gone, The Doctor felt like he was ripped apart from the inside out. He didn’t know what to do with himself anymore. The absolute light of his life had disappeared that easily. He didn’t even get to tell Rose that he loved her.

 

Then, Donna appeared in the TARDIS. The Doctor had to rip himself away from the grief for a surprise adventure. Afterwards, The Doctor had to stop sulking and attempt to move on. It was all he could do.

 

Martha, such a lovely and brilliant woman. He’s doing his best for her, he probably could do better. 

 

He has to do better for her. 

 

 

—

 

 

Then

 

 

The Doctor was repairing some of the wiring under the console. He had recently noticed that the emergency system buttons weren’t translating for Rose correctly.

 

The TARDIS wasn’t meant to translate Gallifreyan to other languages. So, very early on, The Doctor had adjusted some things so she could translate Gallifreyan to English. The system had to be repaired regularly, but it was worth it for people like Rose. 

 

There were some flaws, both non intentional and intentional. The Doctor only gave the TARDIS permission to translate certain things. He didn’t want some people to snoop around the library and read on Gallifrey, so the TARDIS only had permission to translate that in emergencies. The TARDIS struggled to translate some of The Doctor’s handwritten notes, she claimed that it was because his handwriting was awful. 

 

“Doctor!” Rose came into the console room, The Doctor pulled himself up from under the grating to see Rose. His eyes lit up when he saw her and he smiled a bright and genuine smile. Rose smiled in return when he saw him.

“We need to go to the shops” Rose said calmly.

“What?” The Doctor answered, quite confused.

“We’re low on food, and toiletries.” The Doctor’s mouth went into an “O” shape.

“The repairs can wait.” The Doctor hopped out from the floor. “Where do you humans go? Tesco?”

“Yeah,” Rose answered.

 

The Doctor then proceeded to haphazardly start up the TARDIS to take them to Tesco for a not very brief shopping trip.

 

 

—

 

 

Now

 

 

Martha was enjoying a nice and fairly relaxing day on the TARDIS. Martha had intended on leaving to go work and spend some time with family, but she was tired. She really wanted a break after the adventure they had the day prior.

 

Martha looked around the TARDIS. She checked out the different rooms and the structure of the TARDIS, curious about the living machine and how she worked. 

 

Martha made her way into the library and she got a glimpse of The Doctor. He was sitting in a corner of the library and writing something. Martha backed away, hoping not to disturb him.

 

One of the first things that Martha had noticed about The Doctor was how melancholic he was. He appeared to almost always be brooding and generally just unhappy. 

 

He made an effort to make sure that nobody knew he was unhappy though. He always tried to present himself as joyful and happy to do anything. 

 

He was also very openly grieving a relationship with somebody named Rose. Martha knew almost nothing about Rose except for her name and what she didn’t have in common with Martha. Honestly, Martha kind of wished she knew more about the girl, she seemed very important to The Doctor.

 

That in itself could easily be an understatement. Rose seemed to be The Doctor’s whole world. Losing her seemed to destroy him. Martha wished she got to see what The Doctor was like before losing her. 

 

The loss of Rose seemed to destroy the poor bloke. 

 

Martha wanted to help him but she knew her place in this. Even if it was just subconsciously, Martha could tell that she was a rebound to him. No matter how much The Doctor adored her, she was a rebound. 

 

He had Rose and lost her. Now Martha is here to fill that gap in his life.

 

Martha isn’t particularly fond of having this role, she considers just leaving. It’s hard for her to escape the madness of this new lifestyle though. She’s seen the universe and doesn’t know how to just move on after that.

 

 

—

 

 

Then

 

 

Rose is the greatest thing that has ever happened to The Doctor. 

 

She is his universe. 

 

He may have seen almost everything that there is to have seen, but he’d give up all of that freedom for Rose.

 

As she’s about to fade away into the parallel universe, The Doctor fears about what he is going to do with himself without her.

 

Hell, he’s ready to burn up an entire sun to properly say goodbye to Rose.

 

His precious beautiful Rose.

 

 

—

 

 

Now

 

 

The Master is dead and Martha is gone. The Doctor had just spend a year in captivity while Jack was tortured relentlessly. 

 

Sure The Master was a terrible person, but he was the last person alive who was like The Doctor. They were the last of the Time Lords. 

 

Now The Doctor was The Last of the Time Lords.

 

The Doctor has been at a loss with how to come to terms with this.

 

Poor Martha.

 

He really could’ve given her more. 

 

Martha deserved so much more. She was amazing, absolutely brilliant.

 

But he was so lost in all his brooding that he kept comparing her to Rose and didn’t appreciate Martha for who she is.


Martha deserved better, but now she’s gone, off to be the wonderful and brilliant woman that she is.

 

The Doctor got up and searched for some chaos in the universe, he needed something to fix, a way to help others. 