WWTDD: What would the Doctor do?
aboutcustardcreams 

---

If the Doctor was there, you’d tell her she is an idiot. How she always managed to do what’s right was beyond you. It was easier to put the blame on her because it was her fault, at least a tiny bit, if you found yourself in that predicament, yet you weren’t angry with her. You never could. This isn’t to say that you never do the right thing, because you do. The difference lies in the way you operate, operated actually, considering you changed. Since you two parted ways, you tried to be more like her. You used to be more… practical, especially when it came to protecting those in need. To put it in simple words, if somebody threatened to punch you or the Doctor in the face, you’d make sure to strike first. It seemed reasonable to you.

 

You have always been a bit feisty, growing up. But you’d not consider yourself a bad person. The Doctor was the mediator, the one good with words, while you were the brawn. And for a while it worked out quite fine. As far as you can remember, you two have always traveled together, despite your differences. It was also true that despite being inseparable and quite close, you bickered a lot and mostly about your methods of taking action. You saved her multiple times, and it’s not that she didn’t appreciate it, because she did, but she was always pointing out the fact that there were other ways to face problems. Ways that didn’t involve the use of violence, for example. You weren’t violent per se and she knew that. Sure, you did throw your enemies against the wall, punched them in the face, electrocuted them with your sonic screwdriver, but it was always to protect the Doctor and not for the fun of it. 

 

“What’s your problem?!” She snapped at you, hands flying in the air in utter exasperation. You just shot an alien in the leg who, in your defense, was running after you two and not with the purest intentions. 

 

You scoffed, your brows shot up in disbelief, “my problem? Are you serious right now?” She stormed back in the TARDIS, avoiding meeting your eyes on purpose. You groaned and followed behind, “Doctor!” 

 

“Was it really necessary?” When she spun around, her features hardened as she looked at you. Oh, you knew that look on her face; it made you feel uneasy and… guilty. 

 

The Doctor was clever, incredibly so, and yet she failed to see your truest intentions. “He would have shot you! I saw him pointing that laser gun at you–” You explained, frustration filling your voice. It was exhausting trying to make her understand why you acted a certain way. In your mind, your actions couldn’t be easier to read. You lov- cared for her and the last thing you wanted was her to get hurt or worse. “Was I supposed to let it happen?”

 

The Doctor closed her eyes and let out an exasperated sigh, hands crossed over her chest in a defensive manner. If only you could read her, and truly, you’d know what really bothered her. But she would hardly open up, your Doctor. She has always been so secretive, so… introvert despite her joyful and engaging personality. “I’m not saying that, but you shouldn’t use violence for whatever reason. It’s wrong and it’s dangerous. We talked about this– tons of times,” she explained, putting emphasis on every word, as if you were a child and she was the angry mother, giving you the umpteenth lesson of the day. 

 

You merely rolled your eyes, a hint of sarcasm filled your voice as you spoke. “Well, I’m sorry if there weren’t any other options up my sleeve. You should be saying thank you, yet all you can do is give me a hard time for the way I saved your life, again.”

 

“I didn’t ask you to!” She reproached, and you frowned. 

 

You were confused. Beyond confused, actually. “What are you talking about? You don’t even have to ask for me to save your life!” You snorted out a laugh.

 

“No, I know– I didn’t mean that. I just–” She exhaled, struggling to put to words her real concerns. In all honesty, she would do the same thing for you and that scared her. She would break all the rules of the Universe if that meant keeping you safe, and yet she would never admit that to you or to herself out loud. She could only hope that it never came to that, because there’s no coming back from a certain path, once taken. Her morals kept screaming at the back of her head that this was not the way to operate. That violence couldn’t call for more violence. And she was worried about you because the perspective of your actions turning against you terrified her. “We are supposed to help people, answer distress calls and find solutions that don’t require the use of any kind of weapons. You have a brain, use it.”

 

You hummed deep in thought, almost in a mocking tone. Hands on your hips. “My brain couldn’t have saved us from those laser guns.”

 

The Doctor’s nostrils flared. She answered before she could connect her brain to her mouth. “We don’t know that if you never put it to use!” 

 

Your eyes widened at her words, your mouth parted in an expression of pure disbelief, “Woah-” She saw the hurt in your eyes, how your body tensed up and she mentally cursed herself. She shook her head and drew closer, “Look, I didn’t mean to say that–”, her voice tired and apologetic. You swallowed thickly and stepped back when she held out a hand for you to take. I’m just worried about you, she meant to add and yet kept quiet. When you didn’t let her touch you, she knew how much she messed up. She called out your name, almost in a desperate plea, but you cut her off,  without meeting her eyes, “No, it’s fine. Totally fine,” sarcasm was evident in your voice. 

 

The Doctor wasn’t stupid, “Y/n…”

 

“At least now I know what you really think of me.”

 

“That’s not– I do not. Wait!”

 

That was the last moment you talked to her before storming out of the TARDIS. She came after you at first, but you pushed her away, asking, begging her to give you some time alone. You weren’t going to leave forever, that was out of the question, but you were in need to clear up your mind first. You knew she really didn’t mean to say those words, you have known her all your life, lives actually, yet it still burnt.

 

You didn’t mean to be away for long, however, spending some time alone allowed you to really focus on the Doctor’s words. And you realized all this time she had been right. She was always right and it was annoying. You couldn’t rely on violence for whatever reason, so you made use of the time alone to fix yourself. You never thought you’d do that for anything or anyone, yet you were willing to change for her. You had a vortex manipulator to move around and that’s what you used to answer distress calls all over the Universe. 

 

Days turned into weeks. And you changed, you had a different mindset. You only wished it happened while traveling with her, without being so stubborn about it, because now you’d really use her help. Your wrists were bound tightly in chains above your head, so high you were forced on your tiptoes, making your discomfort next level. The cuffs were starting to cut into your skin as you kept pulling; your limbs tingly and sore were desperate for a release. 

 

“Okay man, I think I’ve intruded enough– would you be so kind as to let me go?”, you growled, your digits turned white, as you clenched your hands into fists, trying to get the blood pumping there but with no luck. “I promise, I’ll pay you a visit,” you gave him a fake, cheeky smile. 

 

The alien stepped forward, with a coy grin on his face. His face looked humanoid, if it wasn’t for the fact that he had a third eye right in the middle of his forehead, and his skin color wasn’t exactly among the most common, but a mixture between dirt orange and yellowish. You met his kind with the Doctor a few months back. They were called Torwash or Torvash, you weren’t sure. You may or may not have set off a couple of explosives to blow up their building on planet Serentara, ruining their plans to enslave its population. 

 

“Do you really think I will let you go after everything you’ve done?” 

 

You scoffed, “Oi! I wasn’t alone when I crushed your forces, humiliated you and your kind and set those innocents free...” Maybe you shouldn’t have reminded him of all the things you did, but you couldn’t help your teasing nature, even under similar circumstances. That’s another thing the Doctor wasn’t particularly fond of, but you were working on that too. Couldn’t fix everything about yourself in one sitting now, could you? A small smile tugged at your lips, as you imagined her hand flapping at your head for your bad timing. You’d have preferred that over that unexpected surge of electricity that shot through you, coming from those binds trapping your wrists. You let out a muffled cry and clenched your eyes. 

 

“Aahw, you aren’t holding back, are you? I love a good screamer–” he teased. 

 

As the electricity subsided, you lifted your chin and gave him a faint smile, ignoring what he just said, “I see you’re still holding a grudge. You know, resentment isn’t good for the skin, especially yours–” you breathed out, chains rattling to the trembling of your body. 

 

He cocked an eyebrow, “I’m not sure whether you’re brave or just utterly stupid.” 

 

“Maybe a bit of both,” you trailed off, chest rising and falling heavily,

 

When he grasped your chin, his claws dug deep in your skin and you hissed for how sharp and uncomfortable they felt. “You could use a manicure, man.”

 

He pushed you hard, and your back crashed against the cold rocky wall behind you. You hit the back of your head too, and for a moment your vision clouded with tiny black and white dots. You wished you could pass out, to give a glimpse of rest to your aching body, but of course it would take more than that to tire a Time Lord. “Geez, your resentment hurts,” you croaked out, yet you didn’t allow yourself to lose your defiant smile. 

 

“Do you think it’s wise to keep poking the bear?” He snapped, voice dripping with venom and anger.

 

The skin around your wrists was so tender, you felt it rip and bleed. It was impossible to keep from squirming, especially since you couldn’t place your feet down properly. You were so tired, you’d honestly sleep upright. “To be honest, no. But old habits die hard,” you winced at the droplets of blood falling from your wrists, sliding down your arms. 

 

He recognized honesty in your tone, so he hummed and started walking around you like a predator eyeing its prey before calling it dinner. “I’m curious, what happened to the Doctor?” He saw you tense up at the mention of her. “I thought you two were inseparable.”

 

“Ah you know– we are taking a pause for reflection,” you muttered vaguely. 

 

A smug grin tugged at his lips. “So she left you…”  

 

You shot him a glare and gritted your teeth, “For your information, I’m the one who left. But to be frank, it’s none of your damn business, so don’t ever act like you know everything cause, spoiler alert, you don’t know shit.”

 

The alien raised his hand and smacked you across your face, sending a pain shot right through your cheek and jawline. You tasted something else in your mouth, when you smacked your lips. Blood. More blood. “Fuck!” For a moment the Torvash thought he was starting to break you but when he spotted your lips stretching in a lopsided grin, he reconsidered, “that is all you got?” 

 

You knew it was risky to push his buttons, but anything was better than giving him the satisfaction of making you feel vulnerable or weak. 

 

Another surge of electricity shot through you and this time you made no effort to hold back your scream. Your entire body shook violently, your eyes fell shut as a pained howl slipped from your lips. You made the fatal mistake to pull at your binds and lift your knees and the pain could only intensify.The skin around your wrists felt like melting and it probably was. Cause it burned like fire feeding on your flesh. 

 

The Torvash laughed, “Not so cheeky now, are you, Time Lord?”

 

“F-fuck y-you!” You hissed, eyes darkening towards him. 

 

He clicked his tongue, feigning disappointment, “I see how it is…”

 

You knew at that point, he was about to strike again, so you closed your eyes and held your breath, hoping that this time the pain shot would be strong enough to make you pass out. You waited and waited until it was his piercing cry to echo through the room. Curiosity caused your eyes to snap open again.  

 

“Torvash, if you were so desperate to get my attention, you could have texted me,” You’d recognize that voice anywhere, it was the Doctor. You let out a long shaky breath you didn’t think you were holding when spotted her. 

 

She looked ethereal, like an absolute vision after days in a desert. 

 

With her hand stretched out, sonic pointed at him, he hit him, one strike to his hand caused him to drop the remote he was holding to control the electricity surging from the cuffs, “Ah-ha! I don’t think so.” She quipped, before striking him again when he tried to reach out to the remote at his feet. This time she hit his shoulder, and he let out a sharp cry, to which you spotted the Doctor grin, as if she was delighted by his pain.

 

It was sexy, you thought to yourself. And new too. 

 

When she struck another time, your brows shot up in both disbelief and surprise. The Torvash was left unconscious on the ground. He wasn’t dead, but at least he would snooze for a while, giving you and the Doctor enough time to get out of there. 

 

You snorted out a small chuckle. “What happened to your peaceful ways?” 

 

She just shrugged, pulling away her sonic, “Mercy is overrated sometimes,” she commented, rushing towards you. 

 

“It’s so good to see you,” when she stopped right in front of you, a small smile, almost timid, tugged at your lips. 

 

Her hearts ached and her breathing fastened at the sight of your weary, yet hopeful eyes. She couldn’t help but think this was her fault. 

 

“I missed you,” her face so close to yours you could feel her breathing across your face. 

 

“Bet you did,” you muttered cheekily, earning a playful eye roll from her. “I missed you too,” you added softly, leaning in towards her body. She placed her forehead against yours and your hearts thumped even louder. When the chains rattled, she lifted her chin up, to look at your injuries. Color drained from her face the moment she noticed the blood running down your wrists. 

 

“Oh–” she winced. 

 

You played cool, as per usual. If you hadn’t been tied up and down, you’d squeeze her shoulder or playfully nudge at her arm to make her smile again. She could light up the Universe with that smile of hers. Make everything better.  

 

“It’s okay–”

 

“It’s really not,” she stuttered, forcing out a smile, “but it’ll be. I promise.” 

 

She pointed her sonic towards the iron cuffs, trying to keep her fingers from trembling while doing so. With a burst of energy, they finally clattered on the floor at your feet allowing your skin to finally breathe some air. Oh, it felt good. When your feet touched the floor, you struggled to keep your balance. The Doctor saw it coming; she draped an arm across your middle, the moment your knees gave in. “Gotcha,” she whispered, voice thick with fear and emotion. 

 

“Sorry. My limbs are kinda numb.”

 

She stroked and smothered your damp hair on your forehead, “You have nothing to be sorry for.”

 

You leaned against her, as she helped you on your feet. With the blood finally flowing back in your lumps, you felt slightly better, but not out of the woods yet. You were tired, and you’d very well enjoy a good snooze like Mister Torvash over the floor. 

 

“Where’s the TARDIS?” 

 

“Down the corridor,” she replied, helping you take your steps. 

 

You hummed, looking around you with a watchful eye, with the fear of bumping into other Torvash along the way. The Doctor squeezed you a bit tighter, recognizing the concern in your gaze. 

 

“No worries, Yaz and Dan dealt with the others. We are fine,” she said, before pointing out. “You’re fine.”

 

You hummed absentmindedly, only to realize you didn’t know this Dan she just mentioned. Your eyes shot up in both curiosity and disbelief. Has she already collected another companion to travel with? That would be very much like her, truth be told.

 

“Have you already replaced me?”

 

A small chuckle escaped her mouth at your harmless teasing. 

 

“Don’t be silly. Now let’s go–”

 

You looked down at her coat, noticing droplets of blood, your blood soiling it. “I’m ruining your clothes,” you pouted, and yet you didn’t pull away. If anything you scooted closer, or she did. You weren’t sure.

 

“It’s the least of my problems,” she argued, giving your hip a light squeeze.  

 

“I was starting to think I’d have to say goodbye to this body, you know?”

 

She clicked her tongue and looked at you as if you had just said the stupidest thing ever. “Not a chance. I’ve got your back, always.”

 

A moment of silence fell upon you two, once in front of the blue box. Before stepping in, the Doctor hesitated, as if she had some unfinished business to deal with. She spotted the Torvash from a distance, still on the ground. He was starting to move, probably about to regain consciousness. A part of her wanted to wait until he did, only to strike him again and again with her sonic. She wished he paid for what he did to you. 

 

“Hey,” you muttered softly, squeezing her hand, “He’s not worth your anger.”

 

Her eyes softened once she turned towards you, “he shouldn’t have hurt you,” she whispered, her hands ran to your cheek and softly traced the contour of your jawline. You shivered under her touch, “No, he shouldn’t have. But I promise, it barely tickled.” 

 

She hummed, not completely convinced by your admission, however she didn’t insist and the two of you finally stepped inside the TARDIS.

 

“You know, I tried to be more like you,” you added quietly. It was her turn to share a look of disbelief at your words. “I mean no violence. No weapons. And I realized I’m quite good at that– but maybe, from now on, it’s better if we stick together to avoid complications…”, you gestured vaguely with your hands. 

 

A sad smile curled her lips, “I’m sorry I made you think you had to… change. You’re brilliant, perfect just the way you are.”

 

You shrugged nonchalantly, “Nah, I like this new me more,” you assured her. “Besides, you were right. We can’t always rely on violence to fix our problems, even though you taught quite a lesson to that Torvash,” you teased, your tone light and playful as you flopped down on the pavement, exhausted and sore. 

 

Standing there at the panel room, there stood Yaz with the new recruit, “Heya newbie. Nice to meet ya.”

 

He waved kindly, and answered with his thick, scouse accent, “Happy to finally meet you too, despite the circumstances.”

 

Yaz rushed towards you, and before you could protest, she wrapped her arms around your neck in a crushing embrace, “don’t you ever leave like that again!” 

 

A wave of guilt rushing over you, remembering you left without saying a word to her. She wasn’t there when you and the Doctor had that disagreement. “I’m sorry, Yaz,” you muttered apologetically. 

 

When she pulled away, she gave you a playful nudge. 

 

The Doctor stepped in, “you need a proper checkup.”

 

Your head lolled in the Doctor’s direction, “later?” you pouted, voice drowsy and whiny. You were exhausted and the warmth of the TARDIS, the idea of finally being back home, with your fam, allowed your body to relax even further, to the point that you felt like you could literally fall asleep there. 

 

The Doctor crouched down with a sigh, “Now,” she objected firmly. 

 

Yaz playfully rolled her eyes. She walked towards Dan, giving you and the Doctor a moment for yourselves. “I’m never sure whether they are bickering or flirting,” she hummed, her voice hiding a veil of playfulness. 

 

Dan chuckled at that, “The Doctor talked non stop about her. Doesn’t take a mastermind to figure out she likes her.”

 

In the meantime, the Doctor had given in. She shifted behind you and drew you onto her lap. Her arms wrapped around your middle, and gently took your hands only to curl your fingers together. Your body melted completely in the warmth of her embrace, you missed so much. Your head lolled back against the Doctor’s shoulder and you let out a content sigh, “I’m so happy to be back.”

 

The Doctor snorted out a small laugh, placing her cheek on the top of your head, to feel you, smell you, “No more pauses to think, hm?” 

 

You felt your eyelids get heavier every passing second, yet you smiled. The Doctor knew you were about to drift off any moment now and she held you a bit tighter, “who needs ‘em, anyway?” You muttered sleepily. 

 

“Not us,” she cooed, before placing a kiss on your temple.